August 25, 2025  
ESIIL VERDE Meet & Greet

## VERDE Overview (Catherine)

Past: origins and evolution of deciduousness  
Present: biogeography and drivers  
Future: modeling, phenology monitoring, community science, and many more avenues  

[Powerpoint slides here](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/10AjZPBRMAoNa8sCU1_aHbidOq6fCSTBWygwDpPefANs/edit?usp=sharing)  
[Recording here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1hT_r71l6oxHgBujZ2ucjghpSTFH5Zjry/view?usp=sharing)  
[AI Meeting Summary here](https://docs.zoom.us/doc/lcfokgdXTweYCy6IiFxsyQ?from=integration_share&skipCheck=1)  

## Introductions (All)

Brief introductions  

**Catherine**: VCU, dry-rainforest ecotone  
**Horacio**: CIECO UNAM, soil, atmospheric dessication effects on phenology (seedlings, saplings, adults)  
**Jennifer**: UMN, plant trait, community management perspectives, understanding dry seasons/seasonal water availability and responses to climate change, regeneration following disturbance, and art(!) interests. Reminder that ESIIL is flexible on end-products  
**Xavier**: Macalester College, MN, coastal Ecuador (Chocó and dry forests), use satellite images to land use change, conservation, human-environment interactions  
**German**: Oregon State U, hydrologic and photosynthesis/functional traits. Physiological traits among different phenological strategies  
**Adrián**: Postdoc, ITSON, effect of climate change on dry forests and northern distribution in Mexico, structural changes post extreme (freezing) events, modeling carbon stocks, remote sensing (land use change)  
**Anna**: Assoc. Prof. UCSB, thinks a lot about seasonal water availability in arid systems in Western US and global contexts, use ecophysiology in process-based modeling to understand how different climate drivers impact ecosystem processes  
**Toby**: WashU St. Louis/MOBOT, floristic diversity and evolutionary history, DryFlor (100+ scientist network)  
**Natalia**: Assoc Prof, U Michigan, forest community ecology, diversity and dynamics of tropical forests. Works in both rain and dry forests (Puerto Rico and Colombia)  

	
## GitHub (German)

https://github.com/CU-ESIIL/VERDE

## Goals & Objectives (All)

To co-create new research on tropical dry forest phenology  
_Metrics of success: sustained engagement, number of new collaborations_

To collate and harmonize data  
_Metrics of success: number of new datasets formally published in public repositories_

To support the development of scientific outputs (collectively defined, e.g., phenology monitoring protocols)  
_Metrics of success: number of outputs, audience reached…_

To support training in new-to-you analytical tools (German)  
_Metrics of success: number of contributors to GitHub, others_ 

Other collectively defined goals!

E.g. Prepare and submit proposal (LOI deadline October 16)  
_[Simons Collaborations in Ecology and Evolution](https://www.simonsfoundation.org/grant/simons-collaborations-in-ecology-and-evolution/?tab=how-to-apply)_

## [ESIIL Code of Conduct](https://github.com/CU-ESIIL/VERDE/blob/main/docs/resources/code-of-conduct.md)

## Lightning (5 minute) talk sign-up for October [(Date Poll)](https://whenisgood.net/4xyntj7)
1. Natalia Umaña
2. German Vargas
3.
4. 
	
# First in-person meeting: March 30–April 4, 2026, Boulder, Colorado, ESIIL headquarters
## Calendar invite to be sent aftewards

## Important Travel details

US citizens or Green card holders - ESIIL is allowed to book domestic flights, pay for personal vehicle mileage and make hotel reservations without tax liability. If finance paperwork is completed by the deadlines given, a stipend check may be claimed at the Working Group meeting, otherwise, it will be sent by mail after the event.

US student visa or work visa holders - Because of tax liability that cannot be covered with ESIIL funding, we cannot arrange travel on their behalf. If finance paperwork is completed by the deadlines given, a stipend check may be claimed at the Working Group meeting, otherwise, it will be sent by mail after the event. The University may levy a tax on the travel support, determined by the International Tax Office.

Non-US persons traveling internationally - Because of tax liability that cannot be covered with ESIIL funding, we cannot arrange travel on their behalf. Stipends for international travelers can only be sent after the trip is complete, as the I-94 arrival/departure form issued at entry to the US must be submitted as part of the finance paperwork. The University may levy a tax on the travel support, determined by the International Tax Office.
